Switching out the default embedded container in a Spring
Boot app really isn't that difficult.
I'm going to jump into the pom.xml file to begin this.
I'm going to scroll down until I find the spring-boot-starter-web dependency.
This is the dependency that brings in the Tomcat embedded container.
So the first thing that needs to happen is we need to switch out the
container by excluding Tomcat from this dependency.
And in Maven, you can do that by adding this to the dependency declaration.
Simply add an exclusions tag, and inside of there,
you can exclude the spring-boot-starter-tomcat artifact.
This will no longer load in this dependency when you
include the spring-boot-starter-web.
Next, we need to bring in the new container dependency.
Spring provides starters for Jetty and Undertow.
I'm going to use Jetty, so all I need to do is add the following dependency.
This dependency will be a sibling of the
spring-boot-starter-data-jpa or the spring-boot-starter-web,
and it's simply including the spring-boot-starter-jetty.
I'm going to go ahead and save the POM file.
And since we've modified the POM,
IntelliJ is asking if we want to import and sync the changes,
which we do, so I'm going to go ahead and click on that.
And at that point, we've switched the containers.
So all we need to do is start up the application and test it out.
So I can go ahead and just start the application up here,
clicking on the Play button.
Now if we open up the server log and take a look at this after it's started,
you'll notice that the container is now stating that it's running with Jetty,
and we're started on port 5000, which is the last port we configured.
Even though Spring Boot provides configuration and opinionated configuration,
it makes it really easy to get out of the way and
to customize it for your needs.
Most apps, however, will be fine using the default Tomcat container.
If, for some reason, you do need to change it,
Spring Boot will allow you to do that.
Next,
let's check out what it takes to get your application packaged so that you can run it as a standalone app outside of the IDE.